The bits about the PGCE I mostly enjoyed were
the placements.
Getting out there in a variety of different
schools - big schools, even rural, urban schools
as well was a real benefit.
To see kids in different environments, because,
you know, in the big city schools, you do
meet some characters, which is really good,
and then going out into the schools out in
the sticks, like my last school - I was in
Bewcastle, the most rural place you can ever
imagine, really.
There was 40 kids in the whole school - and
then the school I'm working in now, I've got
31 kids in one class.
So there really is a massive range and it's
really, really enjoyable seeing all the different
children in different environments.
Other things about the course, I enjoyed meeting
a range of new people as well.
I've made some lifelong friends, you know,
only in a year's course and it's people who
have similar interests to myself.
Just real good characters and bonds being
formed here.
I enjoyed it lots.
I do think it is a good route to take and
if I was recommending a PGCE, I really would
because it allows you - I mean, I wasn't sure
when I left school whether I did want to become
a teacher, so doing a three year course in
something I enjoyed prior to dong the teaching
was something that I'd pre-planned and something
I managed to follow through.
As a postgraduate student, you are more of
a professional in training as opposed to an
actual student.
And during the three years of the three-year
course, I did - I'm not saying that I didn't
work hard for the first couple of years, but
you feel like you are building up into it.
Whereas during the PGCE, you do go straight
into it and you're into a real tough blend
of modules and placements that you just can't
afford to ease your way into.
It really is good - straight into a full-time
job.
Which is something that was really good, really,
I mean the three-year course I was at some
stages, perhaps, coming in one day a week,
maybe a dissertation workshop.
Whereas the PGCE, you are in 9 to 5, Monday
to Friday, so you do feel the blending in
from the student into the work placement,
really.
That's something else about the PGCE that
I would probably recommend, really, it's that
it's a nice blend between, like I say, student
life into your professional life.
As I mentioned before about the placements
that I've been on, my extended placement in
particular, the 8-week block, last placement
we had was probably one of the best 8 weeks
of my life, to be honest, because of course
I do think the PGCE obviously gave me the
chance to go on that, but the actual time
you spend in school is crucial and I can't
stress that enough, really.
You probably only spend 21-22 weeks of the
course in the school.
If I was to tell the people for PGCE what
I would like to see more of, it would probably
be more time in school because the experience
that you gain working with the children is
just unsurpassed.
You can't beat it.
You can sit in front of a lecture theatre
and you can get told "There's your behaviour
strategies.
That's how you assess pieces of work."
You can't actually do it unless you go out
into the schools and you find that out for
yourselves.
So the behaviour strategies, for example,
that I learned in the university - yes, I've
been into to go into that and apply them,
but if it doesn't work for that school, you're
not going to get anywhere.
So it's about adapting and about finding what's
best for your teaching, and then also for
what the children need as well.
And that is what the PGCE and particularly
these placements really, really allows you
to do.
I chose the University of Cumbria predominately
because it had a fantastic reputation for
providing people straight into a job.
I knew it had a really high percentage of
- as soon as you completed your PGCE, there's
a very good percentage of people who go into
a job.
As well as living locally in the area, them
two combined - really, it was a no-brainer
for me, to be honest, to actually do my three-year
course and just stay at home and then complete
the PGCE and I knew that if I completed the
PGCE successfully, I would have a pretty good
shot of finding a job locally.
So it was a definite 100% University of Cumbria.